Slow pwm (#27380)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/slow_pwm.markdown

---
title: Slow PWM

> description: Convert one or multiple switches to a numeric input using slow Pulse-Width-Modulation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Convert one or multiple switches to a numeric input using slow pulse width modulation
```

ha_category:
  - Number
ha_release: '2023.05'
ha_config_flow: true
ha_iot_class: Local Polling
ha_codeowners:
  - '@antonverburg'
ha_domain: slow_pwm
ha_platforms:
  - number
ha_integration_type: integration
---

The `slow_pwm` platform is a `number`. It can be used to control one or multiple digital switches in an analog control algorithm. 

> The switches will be controlled by Pulse-Width-Manipulation (PWM, See https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pulse-width_modulation). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The switches will be controlled by pulse width modulation (PWM, see https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pulse-width_modulation). 
```
I realize that Wikipedia spells it differently. I went for the spelling used by [Marriam Webster](https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/pulse%20width%20modulation), which I find to be a reliable resource.

> This enables the usage of digital switches in modulated modes. This is typically useful in slow systems like floorheater or boiler heater controller systems. The [PID controller](/integrations/pid_controller) and the [PID thermostat](/integrations/pid_thermostat)  can use this number as regulated output. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This enables the usage of digital switches in modulated modes. This is typically useful in slow systems like floor heater or boiler heater controller systems. The [PID controller](/integrations/pid_controller) and the [PID thermostat](/integrations/pid_thermostat)  can use this number as regulated output. 
```

## Configuration
{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}
{% configuration_basic %}
Name:
  description: The name the sensor should have. You can change it again later.
Output switch entities:

>   description: One or more output switches. When multiple outputs are selected, the range of 0..100% will be shared over the multiple switches. For example, with 2 switches at 50% output only the first switch will be on full time, at 75% the first switch will be on 100% of the time, and the second 50%.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  description: One or more output switches. When multiple outputs are selected, the range of 0..100% will be shared over the multiple switches. For example, with 2 switches at 50% output, only the first switch will be on full time, at 75% the first switch will be on 100% of the time, and the second 50%.
```

>   description: One or more output switches. When multiple outputs are selected, the range of 0..100% will be shared over the multiple switches. For example, with 2 switches at 50% output, only the first switch will be on full time, at 75% the first switch will be on 100% of the time, and the second 50%.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  description: >
    `entity_id`'s for switches, must be toggle devices. When multiple outputs are selected, the range of 0..100% will be shared over the multiple switches. For example, with 2 switches at 50% output only the first switch will be on full time, at 75% the first switch will be on 100% of the time, and the second 50%.
```
Not sure if I managed to paste this correctly. But I think there was a formatting issue. I believe it should look like this
![image](https://github.com/home-assistant/home-assistant.io/assets/38767475/038fbb90-865d-4e1e-ae6c-2f18d0f251ad)

Minimum:
  description: Minimal value of the number. On this value, all switches will be switched off continuously.
Maximum:
  description: Maximal value of the number. On this value, all switches will be switched on continuously.
Cycle time:
  description: Duration to execute a single controller cycle.
Minimal switch time:

>   description: Shortest possible time a switch should be on- or off. This parameter is typically useful in slow switching applications like the wax-valve of domestic heater systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  description: Shortest possible time a switch should be on or off. This parameter is typically useful in slow-switching applications like the wax valve of domestic heater systems.
```
The hyphenation here reflects my personal preference. I'm not sure there is an exact rule, see [Merriam Webster](https://www.merriam-webster.com/words-at-play/spelling-using-compound-words-guide)

Step:
  description: Step size of the number.
Mode: 
  description: Mode of user interface elements.
{% endconfiguration_basic %}

## YAML Configuration

Alternatlively, this integration can be configured and set up manually via YAML
instead. To enable the Integration sensor in your installation, add the
following to your `configuration.yaml` file:

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
number:
  - platform: slow_pwm
    name: Floorheater living room
    outputs:
      - "switch.living_room_group1"
``` 

{% configuration %}
name:
  description: Name of the slow_pwm.
  required: true
  type: string
outputs:
  description: `entity_id`'s for switches, must be toggle devices. When multiple outputs are selected, the range of 0..100% will be shared over the multiple switches. For example, with 2 switches at 50% output only the first switch will be on full time, at 75% the first switch will be on 100% of the time, and the second 50%.
  required: true

>   type: multiple strings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  type: string
```
My VS Code tells me _multiple strings_ is not a supported type. Did you mean _string_, maybe?

Reviewer 2: There is no such things as multiple strings indeed. This should be a `list`.

minimum:
  description: Minimal value of the slow_pwm number. Timed output will be normalized between minimum and maximum.
  required: false
  default: 0
  type: float
maximum:
  description: Maximal value of the slow_pwm number. Timed output will be normalized between minimum and maximum.
  required: false
  default: 100
  type: float
cycle_time:
  description: Cycle time for the PWM cycle.
  required: false

>   default: {'minutes':30}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  default: "{'minutes': 30}"
```
I'm not 100% sure, but this might fix the pipeline run.

>   type: time_period

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  type: time
```
My VS Code tells me _time_period_ is not a supported type. Did you mean _time_, maybe?

Author: Time is not correct, it should be a time_period. I think the time_period does exist, but in this sentence I should indeed not use a time_period, as the formatting of a time period is 'hh:mm:ss', I use the formatting '{minutes: NN}' to be compatible with the config_flow formatting. In my code I use the cv-check 'cv.time_period_dict', in the python code it is converted to a timeperiod. Can you give both a try in VS Code (I use a simple plain text editor)?

---
title: Slow PWM
description: Convert one or multiple switches to a numeric input using slow pulse width modulation
ha_category:
  - Number
ha_release: '2023.05'
ha_config_flow: true
ha_iot_class: Local Polling
ha_codeowners:
  - '@antonverburg'
ha_domain: slow_pwm
ha_platforms:
  - number
ha_integration_type: integration
---

> The `slow_pwm` platform is a `number`. It can be used to control one or multiple digital switches in an analog control algorithm. 

Reviewer 2: We don't allow the creation of new platform integrations anymore.

Suggested: The SlowPWM integration can be used to control...

The switches will be controlled by pulse width modulation (PWM, see https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pulse-width_modulation). 
This enables the usage of digital switches in modulated modes. This is typically useful in slow systems like floor heater or boiler heater controller systems. The [PID controller](/integrations/pid_controller) and the [PID thermostat](/integrations/pid_thermostat)  can use this number as regulated output. 

> ## Configuration

Reviewer 2: This header is already provided by the include below, did you test this before opening the PR?

Minimum:
  description: Minimal value of the number. On this value, all switches will be switched off continuously.
Maximum:
  description: Maximal value of the number. On this value, all switches will be switched on continuously.
Cycle time:
  description: Duration to execute a single controller cycle.
Minimal switch time:
  description: Shortest possible time a switch should be on or off. This parameter is typically useful in slow-switching applications like the wax valve of domestic heater systems.
Step:
  description: Step size of the number.
Mode: 
  description: Mode of user interface elements.
{% endconfiguration_basic %}

## YAML Configuration

Alternatlively, this integration can be configured and set up manually via YAML
instead. To enable the Integration sensor in your installation, add the
following to your `configuration.yaml` file:

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
number:

>   - platform: slow_pwm

Reviewer 2: This is old-style platform configuration, which is no longer allowed to be introduced. See ADR-0007: <https://github.com/home-assistant/architecture/blob/master/adr/0007-integration-config-yaml-structure.md>

>     name: Floorheater living room

Reviewer 2: Doesn't match our YAML style guide: <https://developers.home-assistant.io/docs/documenting/yaml-style-guide>

  required: true
  type: multiple strings
minimum:
  description: Minimal value of the slow_pwm number. Timed output will be normalized between minimum and maximum.
  required: false
  default: 0
  type: float
maximum:
  description: Maximal value of the slow_pwm number. Timed output will be normalized between minimum and maximum.
  required: false
  default: 100
  type: float
cycle_time:
  description: Cycle time for the PWM cycle.
  required: false
  default: "{'minutes': 30}"
  type: time_period
step:
  description: Step value. Smallest value `0.001`.
  required: false
  type: float
  default: 1
mode:
  description: Control how the number should be displayed in the UI. Can be set to `box` or `slider` to force a display mode.
  required: false
  type: string
  default: '"auto"'
unique_id:
  description: Unique id to be able to configure the entity in the UI.
  required: false
  type: string
{% endconfiguration %}

## Full configuration example

> ```yaml

Reviewer 2: This YAML example doesn't match our YAML style guides, please make sure the styling matches.
